Luke Schulz
1211984746
ALAN key
key is +X,gk

So I approached this problem using ony my knowledge of programming.
In retrospect, I should have applied to tools from the slides / lecture and saved myself a ton of work.

I attempted literally so many things I cant explain them all but I will give the gist.
brute force becomes untennable quickly. First challenge was too much output to sift thru.

Solved by omitting any output without printable characters, used strings.printable set in python

Second challenge was too much processing required, run times > 10 minutes ( the longest being 12+ hours and counting)

tried to shorten the processing by doing things like, for key length = X , only process X chars of the text
discard any subloops on keys which produce non printable characters.
break encryption function on getting an unprintable char etc.

this brought the runtimes down a lot but was still bigger than anything i've come across previously.

it was at this point i broke down and consulted the slides.

Learned that finding the period is pretty easy, was quickly convinced it was 5.

key period 5 was just barely inside the range of my brute force efforts. At length six I think it would be untennable.

i learned that my desktop machine has 8 threads (desktop at home) and only one of them will run any given python script

looked into multi-threading for the first time, was introduced in python 3 so i dropped it.

I tried a couple iterations of brute forcing a five key solution using all the tricks for preventing garbage output and reducing processing
was still coming up with solutions like 5*70^5 operations minimum

decided to let a couple of these run overnight and redirect output to file for processing later

when i finally started to get output, the message was becoming clear. a 4/5 key solution is almost readable.
I did a little bit of compare and contrast, and figured out the latter 4/5th of the key.

The final program was just a simple for loop of all possible characters for the first key position, with the good 4/5 keys.
included as (smart.py)

my code is all hacked to crap and in a bunch of different files at this point. long story short it was a mess but I basically brute forced it.
but more like a strategic force, not truely brute.

one of my outputs to file is 22GB and counting XD